the Indonesian government has denied an
Israeli claim that a hospital in Gaza
built using Indonesian funds sits on a
site where Hamas has built underground
tunnels the Israeli military claimed
Hamas had built the Indonesian Hospital
court on top of their Terror
infrastructures and that Hamas had used
a nearby area to launch rockets into
Israel the foreign Ministry in Jakarta
responded that the hospital in Northern
Gaza was caught entirely for
humanitarian purposes the statement
comes amid growing public condemnation
in Indonesia of Israel's actions in Gaza
over the weekend thousands protested in
the capital Jakarta holding both
Indonesian and Palestinian Flags
participants were clear why they were
there many are enthusiastic in their
support for Palestine hopefully
Palestine will be peaceful soon and
their conflict will subside
quickly
the issue in Palestine is not just a
matter for the Muslim
Community or Indonesia
alone but for all people and religious
communities thus we indeed need to unite
to pressure Israel for a ceasefire in
Palestine let's get more from DW
correspondent Sharon suong in our
Jakarta Bureau Sharon just hearing what
the protesters there were saying it it
looks like Indonesians are firmly in one
Camp yes P so that was exactly what I'm
saying for the protesters when I went um
to see the rally as well so Indonesia
has been very high in support of the
Palestinian cause not only in words but
also in massive amounts of donations
collected uh for the Palestinians to
help them
and series of rally and protests uh
actually have been breaking out in the
streets for the last couple of weeks
joining many other protests that I
believe also took place in many other
parts of the world but the one uh last
Sunday was very particular to me because
uh it was very huge tens of thousands
people are joining and what was
interesting for me was uh the Interfaith
solidarity that was shown during the
rally so um on that rally there were six
representatives from uh six uh
recognized religions in Indonesia uh and
they made a joint declaration in support
of the Palestinians um and so speaking
about uh the support we know that three
ministers were also present including
the foreign minister Her Excellency um
rno marsudi during the rally and we know
that she has been very vocal in speaking
out uh in support of the Palestinians in
the international foreign for example
bash uh during the UN General Assembly
uh emergency session last week where she
called for immediate secession and also
when she had a uh bilateral call with
the foreign minister of uh Malaysia uh
about the urgency to save lives not only
from the foreign minister we also know
from president Joo Doo he also uh asked
for uh the root of the conflict uh
namely the occupation of territory to be
immediately be resolved um with the
parameters agreed upon by the United
Nations and during the meeting with head
of the Gulf States for example president
Joo Doo is also inviting for a global
solidarity uh for
Palestine strong words uh there uh from
the government especially as to what
Indonesia considers to be the the the
the potential root of the problem but
has the government backed up its words
with
actions
yeah so uh just last weekend Indonesia
has dispatched the first batch of
humanitarian aid for Palestinians uh
more than 50 tones of Food Supplies
medical equipments tent blankets has
been delivered and the second batch will
be delivered in the next three weeks
comprom uh comprising medical equipment
uh Indonesia's uh Minister of Defense uh
proo subbiano has also offered Hospital
shipped um but still in coordination uh
with the Egyptian
authorities uh just to go go back to the
point that you were making something
that you saw at this rally in jata it
being an Interfaith rally and also the
strong words uh from the government I
mean this is what we are seeing now and
what you saw but support for the
Palestinian cause has always been high
in Indonesia hasn't
it we know that Indonesia um is a
country with the biggest um Muslim
population in the world so there's a
sense of Muslim Brotherhood uh that is
very thick there so we know that we can
see there's a collective empathy on the
independent struggle and the religious
aspect as well until now Indonesia still
doesn't have any diplomatic ties with uh
Israel because Indonesia has long uh
opposed uh Israeli um occupation of the
territory and we often heard from the uh
Indonesian leaders uh from the foreign
ministers from president Joo Doo as well
that in every breath of Indonesian
diplomacy Indonesia's foreign policy uh
the issue of Palestine recites uh Sharon
how does all of this what we're seeing
in Indonesia right now play into an
election that Indonesia is heading into
next
year yeah by now most politicians and
also uh presidential uh candidates for
next year election have shown support uh
for pal for Palestinians like for
example I just checked Instagram um
Pronto the presidential candidate just
changed his Instagram profile picture
into watermelon picture which is a
symbol of resistance in Palestine also
ganja pranovo another candidate before
his candidacy uh has rejected Israel's
uh participation on the u20 World Cup
which was controversial at that time and
another candidate uh Anis basan was also
present uh during the rally uh we have
to figure out uh uh later if it if it's
going to like boost their votes or not
but we know that uh the issue of Israel
Palestine has been the key foreign
policy in
Indonesia we'll leave it there for the
time being thanks so much for joining us
today DW correspondent Sharon sumal
along in Jakarta thanks so
much